you
good morning everybody it's a beautiful
morning sunny morning in Sugarcreek Ohio
that 8 a.m. and shot some footage
yesterday of work on the liner lock
setting the detent and I am so happy
because the one thing about doing a
tutorial
especially when I'm busy is that I'm
really worried about is I'm gonna make
some fatal error you know a mistake and
then you know delay being able to you
know shoot the rest of this tutorial and
so thankfully it's gone well and setting
the detent is not always easy in that's
a place where it's easy at least for me
anyway to make a mistake and it turned
out good so without further ado I'd like
to show you the process and again I like
the little camera I used a video with
but the battery is old so it doesn't
hold a charge for a long time so I've
got a kind of constantly watch and
unfortunately I missed a little bit of
footage just wasn't recording but I
think I've been able to explain it show
it and it should be clear so let's take
a look at that
so as you can see I've got someone
sixteenths of an inch diameter ball
bearings these are from bearing ball
store comm I got them in eBay
and I'm just checking up one sixteenth
inch drill bit to drill the hole that
the detent ball is going to go down into
and you got to be real careful here in
drilling as you can see I've drilled
down a little bit and I don't want to go
too far the most common mistake that you
can make is drilling this hole too deep
or too shallow I want it to be just past
the equator of this little sphere so
that when I set the titanium around it
it will come up over halfway and will
hold the detent ball securely in place
so you can see right here that the ball
bearing is sitting down into that little
hole and I'll push it down a little bit
more but is just perfect okay so I lost
the footage my camera battery ran out
but tried to get a close up here and
show you a little bit what I did you can
see those four little holes I used a
very sharp punch and punch little hole
so it squeezes the titanium over the
ball bearing much like you would set a
stone in a ring and what that does is it
just lifts the titanium over the ball
and holds it in there very securely so
the next step then is I just assemble
the knife and the d-10 is pressing
against the blade right now and so I'm
going to open and close the blade open
and close the blade several times make
sure that it closes completely and what
this is going to do is the d-10 is
actually going to scratch into the steel
because it's not heat treated yet and
that's going to give me a little bit of
a track to show how about how the detent
runs along the blade and then I can
drill a hole a detent hole in the blade
to hold it closed when the liner is
closed so one more quick thing - I'm
going to scrape a little bit out of the
g10 right here
and that's gonna make it so that the
liner-lock will recess in there a little
bit so here's what the blade looks like
and you can see the track going along
there and I'm gonna come to where the
track ends and then just go a couple
thousands maybe one thousandth of an
inch two thousand seven inch above it
and then drill a hole like that
so this is where you need to be careful
if you can see hopefully it it can pick
it up if I can get the angle right
that's not too bad but you can see the
track here that the detent ball made and
then um what I'm doing what I did is I
just went beyond where this ended and
drilled a 1/16 inch hole and the trouble
with these and it can be so frustrating
I made a lot of mistakes I'm making
these and end up making another blade
but you can if you if you drill the
detent hole too far down this way um the
knife can close and then when it hits
the detent you can actually push it down
a little bit and stuff and it's just
it's just not right it doesn't it
doesn't hold right and so that that you
have to finesse that a little bit and
you know I still make lots of mistakes
and and thankfully this turned out great
I put the knife together click it click
right down in there and again i relieved
a little bit of the g10 so if you could
imagine you know this is what your lock
looks like and you know the detent ball
is sticking out just a little bit so
when it's closed it would be super tight
you know pressing up against it so I
just used a sharp blade and just scrape
the g10 to relieve this so that when the
liner closes it it can actually press a
little further back so the detent is in
the hole but then when you um you know
have the whole thing
looking up and engaging and disengaging
the liner that it can go past you know
where it needs to be and that you know
also helps a lot there's a lot of
factors that depends on how thick your
washers are and several several things
like that but this lock up is great and
I'm so thankful for that so anyway
that's how you do that all that's left
really now is for me to heat treat the
blade to assemble it and it'll be ready
to go I'm thinking about maybe oxidizing
the blade black you know to kind of
match the screws and I have a process
that I can do that get that black oxide
look on the blade you know maybe be
blasting everything I'll see to about
maybe anodizing the liners and the
spacer that'd be pretty cool so anyway
really in the homestretch now and thanks
for watching have a great rest of the
weekend
you